Readme.md, before:

 [![coverage report](https://jugit.fz-juelich.de/satomi/segtrackui/badges/develop/coverage.svg)](https://jugit.fz-juelich.de/satomi/segtrackui/-/commits/develop)


# segTrackUI

Web Application for high-quality and interactive microbial cell segmentation and tracking. The application is based on the [Ionic](https://ionicframework.com/) and [Anglar](https://angular.io/) frameworks.

## How to Test the UI - Use a docker container

We automatically build a docker container that serves the `segTrackUI`. Make sure you have [docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) installed and perform the following steps to get it running

1. Please login at the container registry

    ```
    docker login jugit-registry.fz-juelich.de
    ```
    and enter your credentials. It might be that you have to [configure a user password](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/profile/) in jugit to make the authentication work. If this does not work you can still ask for a [password reset](https://jugit.fz-juelich.de/-/profile/password/reset).

2. Launch the UI server and connect it with omero

    The UI server needs the location of the omero server specified in the `OMERO_URL` environment variable. Thus the code snippet below launches an UI server that connects to the omero server at `localhost:4080` (4080 is the default omero web port)

    ```
    docker run --rm -it --network host -e OMERO_URL=localhost:4080 --pull always jugit-registry.fz-juelich.de/satomi/segtrackui/server:latest
    ```

    *Note:* This command will always fetch the latest docker container from the registry.
    *Note:* The docker container uses the host network. Thus we do not recommend this setup for production usage!

3. Now the segTrackUI is available under [localhost:80](http://localhost).

## Auto-login and Redirect

To automatically login you can specify the username, password and redirect url as parameters. For example, your `segTrackUI` instance runs at `localhost` and you want to immeditely jump to segment image sequence (omero:Image) `201`, use

```
http://localhost/login?u=<username>&p=<password>&r=/seg-track;imageSetId=201
```

where you replace `username` and `password` by your specific credentials.

*Note:* username and password will occur in your browser history!

## Installation Procedure

1. Install Node.js and npm (https://nodejs.org/en/)

2. Clone this repository

```
git clone https://jugit.fz-juelich.de/j.seiffarth/segtrackui
cd segtrackui
```

3. Install all dependencies

```
npm install
```

4. Launch the development server

```
ionic serve
```

## Build from source

Build the application from source and launch it together with a full omero server instance
```
docker-compose -f ./docker-compose/docker-compose.full.yml up --build
```

You can reach the local segTrack app [here](http://localhost) and the omero web [here](http://localhost:4080). The username is `root` and the password is `omero` for the standard user.

## Important notes

The segTrackUI is only functionable with an [OMERO](https://www.openmicroscopy.org/omero/) server as data backend. Furthermore, the ionic server is not recommended for deployment. Please use a secure web server, for example, [nginx](https://www.nginx.com/).

Commit message:

Update installation instructions
- using docker-compose file

Readme.md, after:

 [![coverage report](https://jugit.fz-juelich.de/satomi/segtrackui/badges/develop/coverage.svg)](https://jugit.fz-juelich.de/satomi/segtrackui/-/commits/develop)


# segTrackUI

Web Application for high-quality and interactive microbial cell segmentation and tracking. The application is based on the [Ionic](https://ionicframework.com/) and [Anglar](https://angular.io/) frameworks.

## Installation

To install all the microservices including omero and omero web, we have prepared a docker-compose setup. Make sure you have docker installed. Then switch to the docker-compose directory

```
cd docker-compose
```

Now launch the compilation and setup using
```
docker-compose -f docker-compose.full.yml up --build
```

This will take a while because we need to download all the docker images and compile our code to make it ready for execution. But after everything is setup, everything runs seamlessly and you can access it in the browser (here)[localhost].

## How to Test the UI - Use a docker container

We automatically build a docker container that serves the `segTrackUI`. Make sure you have [docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) installed and perform the following steps to get it running

1. Please login at the container registry

    ```
    docker login jugit-registry.fz-juelich.de
    ```
    and enter your credentials. It might be that you have to [configure a user password](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/profile/) in jugit to make the authentication work. If this does not work you can still ask for a [password reset](https://jugit.fz-juelich.de/-/profile/password/reset).

2. Launch the UI server and connect it with omero

    The UI server needs the location of the omero server specified in the `OMERO_URL` environment variable. Thus the code snippet below launches an UI server that connects to the omero server at `localhost:4080` (4080 is the default omero web port)

    ```
    docker run --rm -it --network host -e OMERO_URL=localhost:4080 --pull always jugit-registry.fz-juelich.de/satomi/segtrackui/server:latest
    ```

    *Note:* This command will always fetch the latest docker container from the registry.
    *Note:* The docker container uses the host network. Thus we do not recommend this setup for production usage!

3. Now the segTrackUI is available under [localhost:80](http://localhost).

## Auto-login and Redirect

To automatically login you can specify the username, password and redirect url as parameters. For example, your `segTrackUI` instance runs at `localhost` and you want to immeditely jump to segment image sequence (omero:Image) `201`, use

```
http://localhost/login?u=<username>&p=<password>&r=/seg-track;imageSetId=201
```

where you replace `username` and `password` by your specific credentials.

*Note:* username and password will occur in your browser history!

## Installation Procedure

1. Install Node.js and npm (https://nodejs.org/en/)

2. Clone this repository

```
git clone https://jugit.fz-juelich.de/j.seiffarth/segtrackui
cd segtrackui
```

3. Install all dependencies

```
npm install
```

4. Launch the development server

```
ionic serve
```

## Build from source

Build the application from source and launch it together with a full omero server instance
```
docker-compose -f ./docker-compose/docker-compose.full.yml up --build
```

You can reach the local segTrack app [here](http://localhost) and the omero web [here](http://localhost:4080). The username is `root` and the password is `omero` for the standard user.

## Important notes

The segTrackUI is only functionable with an [OMERO](https://www.openmicroscopy.org/omero/) server as data backend. Furthermore, the ionic server is not recommended for deployment. Please use a secure web server, for example, [nginx](https://www.nginx.com/).
